the decision is in in the to mir
rice
killing a case that's roiled
Cleveland
and riveted the country grand
jury will
not entitle white officer for
killing
the black 12 year old the county
prosecutor announced today the
evidence
did not indicate criminal
conduct
we'll have the story in full and
more on
new killings in Chicago after
the news
summary in Iraq government
troops have
recaptured the center of Ramadi
from
Islamic state fighters the
military
trumpeted success today even as
pockets
of resistance persisted we have
a report
from Juliet bremner of
independent
television news the Iraqi flag
once
again flies over Ramadi but this
is
victory at a terrible cost homes
and
businesses are reduced to little
more
than rubble in what seems to be
a ghost
town initial claims of victory
came on
state television this morning as
soldiers took control of a key
government complex the jihadi
who took
ramadia may used propaganda
pictures to
demonstrate their welcome in
truth many
Sunnis who lived here have more
sympathy
with ILS the with the
shiite-dominated
Iraqi army regaining control of
the
streets of Rome Rd is a
significant
victory depriving the militants
of one
of their greatest prizes the
capital of
Anbar province just an hour and
a half's
drive away from baghdad
there was a warning to leave
Ramadi
before this final assault now
war-weary
population must be encouraged to
return
meanwhile in Afghanistan a
Taliban
suicide bomber killed at least
one
person today and wounded 33 many
of them
children the attack struck near
school
near the Kabul Airport and
damaged shops
homes and vehicles in the mostly
civilian area I was standing
near my
shop when suddenly I heard a
huge
explosion and everything became
darker
army shattered pieces of iron
hit me I
was 10 feet away from this
explosion I
saw a teenager a boy he was
killed on
the ground was really terrible
the
Taliban said the target was a
convoy of
foreign forces passing through
the area
the Islamist militant group Boko
Haram
launched attacks across two
cities in
Nigeria today leaving 80 people
dead
suicide bombers struck in
Maiduguri
killing 30 people overnight 20
more died
in an explosion outside a mosque
at dawn
nearly a hundred miles away
the town of mother ghali was
rocked by
twin suicide bombings killing 30
people
there just last week nigeria's
president
claimed that Boko Haram is no
longer
capable of such attacks South
Korea and
Japan have reached a landmark
agreement
in a longstanding dispute over
so-called
comfort women they were koreans
used as
sex slaves for japanese soldiers
during
World War Two the new agreement
includes
an apology from Japan and a
promise of
more than eight million dollars
Japanese
Prime Minister Shinzo hobby said
he
hopes it ended decades of
animosity over
the issue today
Japan and South Korea will enter
into a
new era I hope this agreement
will serve
as a momentum for Japan and
South Korea
to put their hands together and
open up
the new era only 46 of the women
survive
many now in their eighties and
nineties
some said today they support the
South
Korean government's efforts
others
complained the money will create
a
foundation for the victims but
will not
be paid directly to them as
formal
compensation back in this
country the
incidence of asthma in children
appears
to be declining
for the first time in decades
that
finding by the National centers
for
Health Statistics appeared in
the
journal Pediatrics study covered
2000 12
2013 asthma rates began to fall
to the
end of that period
research which suggests declines
in air
pollution could be a factor
Wall Street dip today after a
new drop
in oil prices hurt energy stocks
the Dow
Jones Industrial Average lost
about
twenty four points to close at
17,500
and 28 the Nasdaq fell seven
points and
the S&P 500 slipped 4 and the
man who
was Clown Prince of the Harlem
Globetrotters has died
Meadowlark lemon passed away
Sunday in
Scottsdale Arizona he's nearly
25 years
with the globetrotters
entertaining
crowds with his non-stop comment
chatter
trick plays and antics on the
court in
his prime he was one of the most
popular
athletes in the Meadowlark lemon
was 83
years old and still to come on
the news
hour no charges in Cleveland for
the
killing of two meter race
extreme
weather ravages the South and
Midwest
how people with gluten allergies
can
check their food on the fly and
much
more
cases involving police shootings
is
again focusing much attention on
the way
law enforcement responds to
calls or
threats in african-american
communities
and whether justice is being
served
william Browning begins our
report with
the latest from Cleveland based
in Yemen
say heard in a long as it
applies to
police use of deadly force the
grand
jury declined to bring criminal
charges
the announcement today came from
Cuyahoga County Prosecutor
Timothy
McGinty that the officers
involved in
the shooting death of two near
rice
won't be charged with any crime
back in
2014 police officers crossed
paths with
rice a black 12 year old boy
while
responding to 911 calls of a man
with a
gun in a public park reports
that later
proved to be inaccurate McGinty
said
that his officers arrived at the
scene
race reached for something that
looked
like a gun one officer jumped
out of the
car and shot the boy it turned
out
rights had a toy gun his death
sparked
local and national protest but
today
prosecutor McGinty said he
agreed with
the decision not to indict the
police
given this perfect storm of
human hair
mistakes and miscommunications
by all
involved that day the evidence
did not
indicate criminal conduct by
police the
Cleveland decision yet another
weekend
of tension over police shootings
in
another midwestern city Chicago
yesterday
friends and family of two black
Chicago
residents killed early Saturday
morning
gathered to voice their grief in
song
outside the Chicago homes where
the
shootings occurred Chicago
police say
they were responding to a
domestic
disturbance report called in by
the
father of one of those killed
nineteen
year old antonio lug rear police
said
the officers fired at the Greer
after
they were quote confronted by a
combative subject the Greer who
was
holding a baseball bat at the
time and
reportedly had emotional
problems died
but so did fifty five-year-old
Billy
Jones who lived on the home's
ground
floor and he would just finished
hosting
family for the holiday
police said Jones who was known
in her
neighborhood for working to curb
violence was quote accidentally
struck
for jones's family and friends
the big
question was how a woman who is
essentially a bystander ended up
being
killed by the way thank you all
you need
to do the night of Christians
are
planned space drinkin havin fun
celebrating Christmas like many
chicago
families across the country
should not
have to come outside open a door
and be
shut down by a police officer
and from
the Greers mother the question
was why
lethal force was used against
her son
what happened to tasers cemetery
Moscow
wish to be done
nice to watch the news daily and
I will
grieve for other mothers other
family
members and now today I'm
grieving
myself Chicago police haven't
identified
the officers involved but as
part of a
new departmental policy they'll
be put
on desk duty for 30 days this
weekend's
killings are yet another black
eye for a
department that's already at the
center
of a citywide uproar and whose
practices
are currently under federal
investigation
protests have occurred regularly
since
last month when the study
released video
of the 2014 police shooting
death of
seventeen year old look one
McDonald
since then the officer in that
case
Jason van Dyk was charged with
first-degree murder the city's
police
commissioner Gary McCarthy
resigned and
pressure is mounting on Mayor
Rahm
Emanuel resigned as well
back in Cleveland that City's
Mayor
Frank Jackson called for calm as
news
spread about the decision the
tumor race
case raises family called for
calm as
well in a statement they also
said they
were quote saddened and
disappointed by
this outcome but not surprised
and the
accused prosecutor mcginty of
quote
abusing and manipulating the
grand jury
process to orchestrate a vote
against
indictment let's get a pair of
reports
now from both cities about the
latest
starting with the TV rights in
Cleveland
I spoke a short time ago by
Skype with
Chris Wondolowski who's been
following
the case in the community
reaction he's
with cleveland.com part of the
Northeast
Ohio Media Group and the
Cleveland Plain
Dealer Chris thanks very much
for
joining us
can you just tell me what has
been the
initial reaction to this
decision not to
indict the officers I think
you're
seeing a lot of outrage on
social media
right now I think Twitter and
Facebook
have blown up I think from a
national
perspective right now things in
the city
here actually pretty quiet
there's so
much going on right now from the
cute
Qtel recreational center where
two men
were shot down to the Justice
Center
which houses are courthouse and
jail I
mean prosecutor McGinty said in
his
comments today that the evidence
the
video evidence proved
indisputably in
his mind that a crime had not
been
committed
obviously the family doesn't
seem to to
see it the same way
yeah you're right I i think that
it's I
think that the family is is is
still
grief-stricken and and still
upset and
and and and frankly I don't
think
there's much that anybody could
say they
would convince the family that
that this
was the right decision to make
I mean on that video I know
there was
some kind what some question
about how
long the officers actually had
to warn
to mir to put the gun down
before they
open fire has that been a that
been part
of the discussion you've been
hearing in
Cleveland I i think there's a
lot of
dispute over the the warning
that the
police department said that
officer
lowman had given to to mir
you know I think people have
sort of
done their own accounting to see
if it's
possible to give so many
warnings as
they were speeding up to the
scene there
where where the young boy was
shot so
you know i hesitate to speculate
because
it it's it's difficult to say
exactly
what happened because there's no
audio
on the video I i think thats a
missing
component that I think would
have helped
clarify a lot of the things that
are
still lingering questions the
prosecutor
mcginty has also been criticized
throughout the process of this
grand
jury for putting out dribs and
drabs of
the evidence that seemed to
bolster the
case not to indict the officers
do you
think that today's decision is
going to
quell any of those criticisms
know why I
think he's gonna carry this
criticism
with him i mean he's you know
he's got
an election coming up and I
think you
know i i think i think he's he
he's
going to he's gonna feel this
for a long
time and and you know I think
the
decision for him to put out the
information in in bits and
pieces I
think was a response to how the
ferguson
grand jury was handled in and I
believe
that I mean it's unusual you
know it's
not something you see everyday
in in
criminal in the criminal justice
system
and and I think part of the
reason is is
the sort of response you're
seeing today
you know we're not seeing a lot
of of
uproar right now and and and i
think
that it it sort of help these
people
into what you know a lot of
already knew the decision was
gonna be
alright Christmas key thank you
very
much for joining us
and now let's go back to Chicago
where
the conduct of its Police
Department
remains front-and-center any
Russo of
the local PBS station WTTW in
the news
program Chicago tonight
spoke with us earlier this
evening ed
thanks for joining us again can
you just
give us a sense this has been a
lot of
protest we've been seeing in
Chicago and
now another tragic shooting
happening
over the weekend what's the
community
reaction bit like William so far
there
haven't been any kind of
demonstrations
like the kind that we've seen in
the
wake of the laQuan McDonald
video so far
it has been very peaceful the
only a
show of force show of support
that has
happened so far has been a
community
gathering outside the house
where this
latest shooting took place among
the
community leaders and activists
there
were the was the reverend jesse
jackson
senior so right now it's the
it's it's
been pretty calm in the wake of
that but
that doesn't mean that there
isn't a lot
of anger and frustration in the
community with this latest
shooting I
mean obviously there was the the
one the
tragedy of what seemed to be a
bystander
being killed by police bullets
but then
apparently the the shooting of
this
young man who reportedly had
some mental
problems and I understand that
in the
wake of this this most recent
event
there's been talk of changing
police
procedures as to how police deal
with
someone with mental problems
what has
been that discussion
well that's right as as in the
wake of
this shooting the police
department
admitted that one of the victims
was
accidentally shot now the
circumstances
surrounding the shooting of
nineteen
year old antonio degree or are
still
kind of murky but immediately
the mayor ordered a review of
the crisis
intervention team training that
is that
surrounds how police officers
deal with
calls surrounding mental health
crisis
issues whether this young man
was
suffering from some sort of
mental
illness his father reported that
he was
irate his mother said that he
had some
lingering issues from his youth
when he
was in in in foster care I
believe for a
while but whether that was the
case in
this situation still is now
not clear nevertheless the mayor
has
called for a review of these
procedures
in handling these kinds of calls
and was
there any sense as to whether
the police
had been told that this might be
someone
with emotional problems with
this simply
a domestic disturbance complaint
well what we've heard so far is
that
what they were responding to a
call of a
domestic disturbance and that's
that's
what we've gotten so far when
they
arrived we are told that these
this
young man allegedly came down
the stairs
from a second-floor apartment in
he was
holding a baseball bat and
presumably
the officers felt threatened and
presumably that is why they
opened fire
at least one officer opened fire
from
what we've been told so far but
we still
don't have any clear answers
obviously this is you mentioned
comes
after a long protest in Chicago
over
other police actions since then
you've
got a new police chief you've
got the
new head of a Police Review
Board but
they're still calls for the
mayor to
step down or those continuing
even after
this weekend
well they have and there were a
number
of petitions asking for his
resignation
we do not have a recall
petitions
available here in Illinois yet
although
that that law has been proposed
in
Springfield but there still is a
lot of
frustration and anger at how the
mayor
and his administration have
handled
Trista laQuan McDonald incident
and that
video and now the mayor is out
of the
country he's vacationing in cuba
we've
been told that he is cutting
that
vacation short that he will be
returning
to Chicago tomorrow although we
really
don't know how long the vacation
was
supposed to last year when he
left
because City Hall has not given
us that
information but there is still a
lot of
frustration and it should be
pointed out
that the the head of the police
department right now is only the
interim
superintendent and that the head
of that
Police Review Board is also only
there
in an interim capacity so these
individuals are tasked with with
with
heading these organizations at a
very
rough time whether they will
remain in
those positions
remains to be seen but yes there
there
remains a lot of frustration
alright and
heroes of WTTW thanks so much
thank you
44 today from violent weather
that's
battered the South and Midwest
with
tornadoes and floods since
Wednesday
some of the worst game saturday
in texas
you know barrages of deadly
storms where
there had been homes shattered
piles of
sticks stretched across the
North Texas
landscape today and survivors
were still
trying to tell you their losses
02 pigs
when it opened big big strong
tornado at
least nine tornadoes swept
through
communities around Dallas on
Saturday
they blasted some neighborhoods
with
winds of about 200 miles an hour
and
damaged or destroyed nearly
1,500 homes
so we already in the room is
getting
closer every day in this trailer
lights
went out in the silicon silicon
I mean just like their went with
root or
they withdrew in neighboring
Oklahoma
punish the western and central
parts of
the state over the weekend and
up to a
foot of rain hit the east
you know some one hundred and
seventy-five thousand customers
lost
power
farther north heavy rain
triggered
deadly flooding in Missouri the
victims
included four soldiers from
other
countries
temporarily stationed a tus army
base
they died when they drove into a
flooded
roadway is a small dark highway
it was
raining very hard it was a
twenty-two it
was dark at night time they
probably did
not know what hit them until
they hit
the water in southern Illinois
five more
people drowned late Saturday
when their
car was swept away in a
rain-swollen
creek the same storm system that
generated that deadly weather
kept
moving today
eastward across the nation's
midsection
snow and ice in parts of 11
states and
more rain in places already
waterlogged
system force more than 1,400
flight
cancellations and another 2,600
elaine's
extreme storms in the South and
Midwest
meanwhile the East has
experienced a
practically tropical Christmas
but
Henson is a meteorologist and
bloggers
with Weather Underground and
online
weather service owned by
weather.com in
bob start with the tornado's if
you
would how unusual either in
terms of the
time of year or the number of
them are
their severity what are you
seeing well
it's not uncommon to get
tornadoes in
the south including texas also
the
winter time it's certainly
possible the
strength of the tornado that hit
in the
Dallas area on Saturday is
unusual it
was the strongest tornado ever
to hit
Texas in December there have
been
tornadoes that struck in other
parts of
the South in December but that
was quite
unusual there was also some bad
luck
involved because it happened to
hit the
eastern part of the dallas-fort
worth
metro area obviously one of the
biggest
cities in the country and
forecasters
have long been afraid of what
could
happen if the tornado hit the
DFW area
head-on so this was more of a
glancing
blow but still obviously even
that was
was pretty callous and I we are
way
better at any better at
predicting or
mapping these things absolutely
there at
this this was fairly well
forecast in
terms of tornado watches and
warnings
were out as the storms moved in
so we
certainly are better at
capturing
those and I think indicative of
that is
the fact that something like a
sales and
structures were damaged or
destroyed but
the number of deaths was
relatively
smaller though you know any
deaths too
many now a lot of crazy weather
right
now records for warm weather the
warm
weather is said to come from a
variety
of factors right tell us what we
did
what we know about what's going
on with
a mix of things one picture
going on is
el nino which tends to
redistribute heat
around the globe it actually
adds heat
in the atmosphere by spreading
warm
water over the eastern tropical
Pacific
Ocean and that he gets moved in
shuttled
around the globe but there's
also kind
of a rearrangement of weather
patterns
and sometimes that leads to warm
weather
especially in the Midwest and
Northeast
in the wintertime and December
in
factoring strong el ninos is
known to
have this effect over a large
part of
the eastern USA so we certainly
saw them
play out I'm not just over
Christmas but
the whole month of December has
been
amazingly mild Central Park has
yet to
get below 32 degrees it's it's
by far
the warmest December in most of
the Big
East Coast cities on record and
in some
cases going back to the late
1800's so
amazingly my old moist air mass
and that
actually also filled tornadoes
in Texas
and the flooding in the midwest
and what
do we know what the the
interaction the
impact between climate change
and el
nino when it comes to looking at
weather
patterns right now
well let me know doesn't seem to
be
affected greatly by climate
change in
terms of frequency or duration
or
intensity but one thing we know
is that
in a warming atmosphere of the
peaks of
that warming tend to get
expressed
through el ninos el ninos tend
to warm
the global atmosphere for year
two and
lining the counterparties to
cool the
global atmosphere so when you
get a
warming atmosphere as we are
three house
gases you can expect the warmest
years
to be the el nino years and we
have one
of the three strongest el ninos
in
decades going on right now so if
their
perspective it's not a total
surprise
that we're getting this warning
not only
the USDA records in Australia
and in
fact central England is having
its
warmest December in a setting
like 350
years so a pretty impressive and
just
briefly what are you looking for
in the
next couple of days continuing
severe
weather in parts of the country
will yes
the storm systems moving on
through into
the east
gonna be settling down I think
the next
few days and then we're going to
see a
bit of a realignment with warmer
weather
milder whether I should say
across a lot
of the west
up into Western Canada and
perhaps some
cold in the east through into
January
parts of January but only no
dust him to
force a lot of warmth across the
eastern
Canada eastern us' northeastern
us' so I
would be surprised if its
overall a
pretty mild winter over North
America
that you know we always prone to
those
cold injuries and send the last
several
winners have had some pretty
sharp ones
as you know in the north I'll
say you're
still trying to figure those out
so I
mention of the weather
underground thank
you so much thank you
and stay with us coming up on
newshour
memorable moments from the
campaign
trail this year the debate over
retiring
the fleet of nuclear-armed
submarines
and a loss for the Arts saying
goodbye
to a cinematographer and an
abstract
artist but first a growing
number of
people in the USA
suffer from severe food
allergies and
many more of Lori avoid certain
foods
for other health reasons but it
can be
hard to navigate food choices
when out
at restaurants and social events
special
correspondent cat wise reports
from san
francisco on a startup that aims
to
improve transparency for
consumers
starting with gluten found in
wheat and
other grains it's the latest in
our
breakthrough series on invention
and
innovation
31 year old Shereen aids loves
dining
out with friends but when she's
ordering
it's often a stressful
experience I
would love fest and black beans
and
plantain
says she suffers from severe
gluten
sensitivities and she also has
problems
with soy dairy and a despite our
best
efforts to avoid those foods she
often
finds herself in situations
where she
doesn't know or trust what she's
told is
in the food and just even the
smallest
amount to the food she has
issues with
her health can be impacted for
days
while in graduate school at MIT
dates
attended a friend's wedding and
had an
unpleasant dining experience
that
sparked an idea this waitress
comes by
with these delicious looking
appetizers
and asked her are these
gluten-free and she said how
large are
you I was probably really angry
angry
you know and why can't I just
passed
this and that was the moment
when I
heard that be hard so you see
this entry
here three years later after
teaming up
with Scott son for a fellow MIT
grad who
also has to avoid gluten due to
health
condition
Gates is on the verge of turning
that
idea into a reality with this
small
portable gluten testing device
called
the Nima Nima means fair and
equitable
in Farsi its family's native
language
yes this is new mom in the
kitchen of
their small San Francisco
startup gates
give us a demo on some fresh
supposedly
gluten free waffles that had
just been
delivered from a local
restaurant so we
do is we take a sample and we
put it in
this little capsule and then
we're gonna
take the top action of closing
this will
grind the food someone just put
it in
the sensory now and then we're
gonna
start it takes about two minutes
for the
results to come back during that
time
the device uses a sophisticated
antibody
the company developed to test of
gluten
is present their testing to
level set by
the food
and Drug Administration for what
constitutes gluten-free that's
twenty
gluten protein parts-per-million
a
smiley face means no gluten at
those
levels around means gluten is
present we
got a smiley face so what does
that mean
that means I feel a lot better
about you
to my office now could some
other part
of this waffle have gluten and
yes yeah
that is absolutely a possibility
but
what we are doing is giving you
that
extra piece of data to really
improve
your odds of staying your
healthiest
self when you're eating out and
actively
trying to avoid certain foods
those
trying to avoid gluten is a big
market
about one in five Americans
these days
the regular from about a team of
engineers and scientists who are
part of
the company now called 6 sensor
labs are
making final tweaks to the name
before
shipping it out
customers next summer will cost
about
$250 and each of the disposable
capsules
will be about four to five
dollars
depending on the quantity
ordered
testing foods for gluten isn't
new of
course it's often done in
commercial
labs and there are some home
testing
kits out there but many are time
consuming and require multiple
steps to
get the results that presented
the team
with a design challenge
co-founder scott
son for this is a consumer
product it's
not a medical device that
because of
that has to be something that's
really
easy to use it has to be fast
has to be
discreet the company is aiming
for 99.5
percent accuracy and they're
comparing
their results with the results
of other
independent gluten testing labs
what
they have found so far is about
a
quarter of the food they've
tested
labeled gluten-free have in fact
had
some gluten in them yet says
that
doesn't surprise her I don't
know if
you've ever worked in the
kitchen but
it's chaos and so the idea of
getting
your order and making sure was
heard
correctly getting it to the show
you
know making sure everything was
prepared
in the right way getting the
dish and
putting it back in front of that
consumer that has that real
sensitivity
there's a lot that can go wrong
anemic early tests only for
gluten but
the company is planning to
eventually
tests for other allergens like
dairy and
peanuts
but that's proving harder to do
it
hasn't be clear guidelines
regarding
what exactly what level do you
have to
detect in order to make sure
that people
are not going to change the song
is the
company's lead scientist she
says unlike
for gluten the FDA doesn't have
a set
standard for what constitutes
dairy free
or peanut free big challenge for
us to
understand and potential work
with
regulatory agencies to figure
out what
is the level we need to bring
down so
the second challenge I really
see is
that we need to be detecting
these
proteins are very very sensitive
levels
while six and two labs is
focused on
getting their product to market
quickly
their competition is heating up
several
other companies are developing
different
food testing technologies
including the
use of smartphones all are
attempting to
capitalize on the growing number
of
Americans who were food focused
especially when it comes to
gluten it's
a trend that has more than a few
skeptics before the estimated
three
million Americans who suffer
from celiac
disease inflammation of the
intestines
there's no disputing that is a
serious
health problem there some one
hundred
milligrams is enough to
activated immune
response to put that into
perspective a
slice of bread has five thousand
milligrams so it really doesn't
take a
lot dr. Nielsen Fernandez backer
is the
director of the celiac
management clinic
at Stanford University Hospital
she says
that products like the nima
could be
helpful but they shouldn't be a
crutch
for patients I think it would be
valuable but I think it's only
12 Mb
arsenault I hope it doesn't do
is that
it makes patients more complete
if you
have a piece of staking sample
one could
we be missing gluten and some
other side
the nima team is now developing
an app
that will allow users to share
information about the test
they've done
on foods and we're gluten-free
is
is truly gluten-free for Shrien
Yates
that kind of knowledge can make
or break
her meal out after getting the
smiley
face she was hoping for she
dived right
into her gluten-free empanadas
for the
PBS Newshour I'm cat wise in San
Francisco
holiday weekend enjoyed by all
we hope
including the candidates for the
presidency like today after the
campaign
trail and for us a chance for an
end of
the year look at what's been a
most
surprising race for the white
house
where that we're joined by the
politics
Monday team of the cook
Political Report
and tamara keys NPR handle on
Monday on
this christmas weekend we know
it has
been a crazy right unexpected in
many
ways but Amy you starting start
with
republicans do you remember a
moment
along the way were you say to
yourself
this is not what I but I think
it's when
Scott Walker dropped out of the
race
because it made it really made
me
realize that everything I had
assumed
about what this election was
going to
shape up to be was actually not
working
out that way I mean Scott Walker
on
paper looked like the perfect
bridge can
write and drop out this early
and that
combined with bush's struggles
really
said to me that Boyd the biggest
surprise in this race is not the
rise of
the outsiders but the real
vacuum on the
establishment side and how
incredibly
inefficient and ineffective the
establishment has been in making
themselves important in this
race gender
or is your moment by moment
happened at
a ice cream stand and Burlington
Vermont
had to be right and it was after
Bernie
Sanders had announced he was
running for
president but before he had had
any of
those really big well attended
rallies
and at the time the conventional
wisdom
was really bernie sanders is
running to
push his agenda and to push
Hillary
Clinton to the left that was the
mantra
he's just running to to pull
Hillary to
the left
well i I was interviewing his
best
friend of this ice cream stand
in one of
his best friends and he said no
bernie
sanders is running for real
bernie sanders is in this to win
he is
not in it to to push to push a
message
and and it's really proven to be
true
he's out there he's pushing to
win just
one other moment was a town hall
meeting
Hillary Clinton had in Keene New
Hampshire and she asked everyone
in the
room
room if you've had a connection
to
substance abuse raise your hand
and
almost everyone in the room
raised their
hand and it was this really
remarkable
moment and is a reflection this
is a
presidential campaign almost
every
candidate is talking about
addiction and
drug abuse and heroin and it's
because
New Hampshire's
first-in-the-nation
primary statements are really
big issue
there and that moment really
encapsulated
you're seeing you both in a way
particularly you said Amy not so
much
it's the candidates but also
just wears
the power within the driving
this
campaign we we've been used to
over the
years the power of the elites
whether to
the media or in the donors for
the party
that could ultimately shape the
campaign
in this case especially on the
republican side they've had
little to no
impact no that doesn't mean as
we move
forward they won't but it's
clear the
super PAC spending certainly
hasn't
helped Jeb Bush the attacks by
elite
conservative media haven't done
anything
to stop Donald Trump and when
you look
just at that overall pulling the
number
of people in the republican
primary say
we want somebody who has 0
experience in
governing is over 50% is there
anyone on
the republican side
Scott Walker and her what
happened to
him on your side that doesn't
get much
attention now that you keep
wondering
why not on the democratic side
covering
the democrats yeah there was a
time when
you really thought martin
O'Malley would
catch fire and he he just never
had he's
he stayed in the load single
digits the
whole time hes the maryland
governor
former maryland governor and and
he on
paper looks like he has
incredibly low
name idea he still is is just
working
hard and not really getting
anywhere and
and it's kind of surprising
passport now we're gonna look
ahead I
was less than a month away right
do you
still think as we sit here now
that
these first these first
primaries are
well how important are they
important
they are still very important
I still think they are going to
winnow
the field down we're not gonna
have all
these 13 on the republican side
and we
may lose martin O'Malley to but
I think
to the real question is going to
be what
does donald Trump do if he does
not win
one of those early states are
assumptions about this race is
always
centered around donald Trump
where is he
is the first is he going to be
running
as an independent candidate what
is his
message how the candidates
reacting to
him if he does not win in iowa
new
hampshire the entire premise of
his
campaign is now collapsed during
entire premise of his campaign
it I'm a
winner and Euro losers I'm in
first
you're not what he decides to do
is also
going to have an impact going
happens to
the rest of these candidates are
you see
happening my crystal ball on how
many of
these faces I think there will
be far
fewer faces after Iowa New
Hampshire and
I think also super tuesday is
very
heavily weighted to southern
states and
and I think that it is going to
change
the dynamic and it's hard to
campaign in
all those states takes money and
it
takes hard money not just super
PAC
money and what we know from the
past
campaigns and I know they have
been a
good guide in this election
because
everything we seem to have
learned last
time isn't isn't happening this
force
you to say
where I was not so clear my
crystal ball
but here's what we know we know
that the
events that start to happen when
the
voters start voting really
accelerates
the process all the polls that
we've had
up until all the assumptions
that we've
had up until now they can change
overnight when voters actually
start
casting ballots ok we'll be back
next
week in New Year happy new year
will do
it thanks so much
nuclear-armed submarines nuclear
war now
approaching the end of their
life spans
and he plans to build
replacements but
there's growing debate over how
many are
needed and how to pay for them
veteran pentagon correspondent
jamie
mcintyre now national security
correspondent for al-jazeera
America
reported this story earlier this
year
while on special assignment for
the
NewsHour it was produced in
partnership
with the Pulitzer Center on
Crisis
Reporting been up all night of
america's
nuclear deterrence never fails
the
beginning of the end might look
something like this
160 feet on its all part of the
Ohio
class the first step of the
design the
USS Ohio
one mission finally deep beneath
the
ocean ready to rain nuclear
devastation
on virtually any target anywhere
anytime
on orders of the president just
off the
coast of Hawaii at 180 Man Group
the USS
Pennsylvania demonstrated for
the PBS
Newshour an abridged version of
what it
practices every week this
subject see
submarines video screens
displayed only
unclassified data have a
verified
correct lunch order directing
the launch
missiles 73 and 53 reviewed to
ensure
nothing was compromised what we
saw with
the mock doomsday scenario to
destroy
several major cities and kill
millions
of people it to drill with their
quest
for your consideration
no second
lieutenant AJ Walker is a
trigger my job
is to what euphemistically
termed close
the circle the missile
compartment it's
what makes the submarine such a
fearsome
weapon 24 missile troops each
one
capable of holding a trident
missile
with multiple independently
targeted
warheads that means this single
chip
could deliver massive
destructive power
to multiple targets around the
globe to
critics back in washington that
raises
an obvious question if one
submarine can
bring on Armageddon how many
does tus
really need thank you very much
Joseph Cirincione is president
of the
Ploughshares fund foundation
that
supports eliminating nuclear
weapons
once carries out its minimum
equivalent
of six hundred hiroshima if they
launch
those missiles if they launch
those
warheads it would be a
destructive event
beyond history it's not just an
academic
argument the military commander
of
America's nuclear arsenal
admiral Cecil Haney wants to
upgrade the
aging fleet of 14 Ohio class
ballistic
missile subs in the coming
decades by
building 12 new next-generation
subs
replacing the Ohio class
submarine my
top priorities each submarine
has a
price tag of upwards of five
billion
dollars although when you can't
research
and development the total price
climbed
to over 100 billion according to
the
Congressional Budget Office
however you
want to calculate this fleet is
is a
party and invite admiral mike
connors
command the navy submarine
forces
headquarters in norfolk virginia
he
makes the case for an almost
one-for-one
replacement of the current fleet
arguing
the cost is just one percent of
the
overall defense budget while the
benefit
is incalculable measured he says
in wars
that never start
the truth is that we use them
every day
to deter major problem the
ballistic
missile submarine is an awesome
war
machine at 560 feet it is as
long as the
Washington Monument is high yet
nearly
invisible to enemy eyes when
slinking
silently deep beneath the waves
which
makes it the most survivable leg
of
america's nuclear triad of subs
bombers
and land-based missiles
and what would happen if they
did
attempt a massive strike no
matter how
massive that strike was the
submarine
force that is at sea which
survive and
be in a position to retaliate as
tus cut
the number of nuclear weapons in
the
latest round of reductions
negotiated
with the russians submarines
will play
an outsized role in the
deterrence
mission carrying seventy percent
of
America's active nuclear arsenal
still critics like plowshares
juicer in
Seoni argue building in new subs
to
destroy the world a dozen times
over is
expensive overkill if you just
need this
to be a deterrent force to
respond in
case someone is crazy enough to
actually
attack the United States and
therefore
by deter them from ever doing
that well
you really could be talking
about four
five six nuclear submarines each
of
which would have 16 missile
tubes each
of which would carry five or six
warheads that's a lot of nuclear
weapons
several war games various
worst-case
scenarios involving Russia China
and
North Korea psychological
calculus of
deterrence can't be reduced to a
simple
math problem for you think about
and
intelligent adversary in our
adversaries
and peer competitor situation
they are
intelligent they are thinking
adversaries you wouldn't want to
have a
situation where there's an
incentive
they say you know if we if we
strike on
this day when the ship is being
repaired
when they're just leaving port
and the
other was just coming in that
maybe the
balance of course we change in
our favor
but ultimately it could be money
strategy the torpedoes the
navy's pricey
plan to design and build a state
of the
art sub to replace the current
14 the
cost of that program has been
estimated
in the range of a hundred
billion
dollars the Navy has said that
it cannot
pay for it out maybe budget
hearing to
be confirmed as joint chiefs
chairman
General Joseph Dunford agreed a
whole
new fleet of subset of the
regular
shipbuilding account would bust
the
navy's budget in what I can tell
you
sure it is that we redefine the
Ohio
class replacement of the
department in
eighty it would have a pretty
adverse
effect on the rest of the
shipbuilding
plan estimate or somewhere
between two
and a half and three ships a
year the
cost is some people would say
outrageous
I just say it's tremendous legal
historian and consultant Norman
either
way from the plan to the normal
budget
or special account on a portable
and
unworkable if Congress were to
fund the
maybe strategic submarines out
of a
separate fund tomorrow afternoon
the Air
Force would come in and say hey
congress
approved a new bomber we want
that
funded out of the separate
strategic
fund Omar says there are smarter
cheaper
ways to buy the same level of
deterrence modifying smaller
attack
submarines already in service he
argues
would allow the Navy to buy
fewer of the
bigger ballistic missile subs
today
every attack submarine can carry
tomahawk land attack
conventional
missiles most of our submarines
have
vertical launch tubes for twelve
of
these tomahawk missiles those
missiles
tomorrow
take the couple of years could
have
nuclear war hits but the needy
counters
the smaller attack subs don't
have the
endurance of the bigger boomers
and that
their cruise missiles don't have
the
intercontinental range or carry
multiple
warheads that can destroy
different
targets and advocates for poor
deeper
weapons cuts see the whole
debate
underscores the folly of
expensive new
nuclear weapons that would only
be used
more work essentially already
laws show
USS Pennsylvania was launched in
April
1988 that makes it over a
quarter-century old it like
other
submarines of its class was
designed for
thirty years of service which
means it
would have been decommissioned
in the
next couple of years but now the
navy
says it's figured out how to
keep those
submarines running for an extra
12 years
I give him that ordered
Commander John
Cage is captain of the USS
Pennsylvania
so you showed us around your
boat it
looks great
everything looks like it's spit
polished
and shiny looks like this book
could go
on forever she still has a lot
like less
dinner but its defecating on in
the
years there's things that we
have a lot
of redundant systems that I find
myself
using those redundant systems
little bit
more certain components will
fail
certain things are just starting
to run
and pass their lifetime but the
subs
crew is still prepared to make
the
unthinkable
fire we do think about it i mean
it's
not totally want to have a
nobody in the
world wants to happen would you
handle
the crew have to launch like
that when
no one would sort of know what
the fate
of the world that would be
difficult one
of the reasons we train so
frequently
that evolution you saw we do
that time
and time again so it becomes
something
that we can execute immediately
and
quickly but after that would be
a very
difficult time for this
submarine a
successful deployment is one
where the
only projectiles from the steam
or the
bottlenose dolphins who
playfully
service sucks bail as it
prepares to die
PBS Newshour aboard the USS
Pennsylvania
off the coast of Kauai
PBS Newshour aboard the USS
Pennsylvania
off the coast of Kauai
figures from the world this
weekend the
abstract modern art scene
Haskell Wexler
was a pioneer in the world of
cinematography in the nineteen
sixties
and seventies directing the
photography
and creating new looks for films
like
coming home
wanted to be a war hero man I
wanted to
go out and kill for my country
in the
heat of the night manager tell
me how
you killed us to go but I
promise you
you kind of feel a whole lot
better but
you gotta tell me and One Flew
Over the
Cuckoo's Nest for which he
received an
Oscar nomination crowding you
don't do
mr Harding they don't ganging up
on you
news he's won his first Academy
Award in
1966 for Who's Afraid of
Virginia Woolf
I hope we can use our are for
peace and
thanks I warned you used in
healthcare
mir's the elevated tensions
between the
characters played by Elizabeth
Taylor
and Richard Burton wexler earn
another
Oscar in 1976 for Bound for
Glory which
told the story of Woody Guthrie
who was
the first film to use a
Steadicam shot
alert medium cool 1969 film he
also
wrote and directed wetzler
blended real
and fictional footage to tell
the story
of a TV reporter covering the
turmoil of
the 1968 Democratic National
Convention
at cinma vrit style
influenced
many other aspiring filmmaker
wexler was
also an outspoken liberal
activist and
documentarian who used the tools
of film
to champion his causes it was
you know
and that the only thing that you
could
do anything that you are then he
won an
Oscar for short documentary in
nineteen
seventy interview with me live
veterans
about the newest massacre in
Vietnam
he continued working until
recently
Haskell Wexler died yesterday he
was 93
years old
ellsworth kelly was one of
America's
leading twentieth-century
abstract
artists becoming known for his
geometric
shapes and simple color schemes
inspired
by the world around him
Stephanie Barron is senior
curator at
the Los Angeles County Museum of
Art the
humanity comes from his uncanny
ability
to distill the visual and
physical that
he sees and whether it's a leaf
or an
awning or iraq things that we
might just
walk right by he would pick up
and he
would ponder and he would find
the
essence in them and still it
into a very
simple form during world war two
Cali
painted camouflage patterns on
military
tank cut-outs to full German
forces and
after the war he moved to Paris
to study
art on the GI Bill he returned
to the
USA in the nineteen fifties his
bold
geometric paintings left some
viewers
wondering just where the park
was while
others found themselves drawn in
burn
down that how much it seems to
affect
people and there is a strange
ability
that these works have to
communicate to
people who don't just walk by
them
they're really drawn into it and
and they're very contemporary
work would
eventually make its way into
leading
museums in this country and
abroad and
in 2012 Kelly received the
National
Medal of the Arts from President
Obama
ellsworth kelly died Sunday at
his home
in upstate New York he was 92
years old
newshour online even if it has
been
where you are you can still
enjoy these
stunning photographs of
snowflakes taken
by a russian photographer ultra
close
ups from a point and shoot
camera photo
gallery of these images is on
our
homepage pbs.org / news hour and
that's
the news hour for tonight I'm
jeffrey
Brown join us online and again
here
tomorrow evening for all of us
at the
PBS Newshour thank you and good
night